[Gold Rush] Rules update (#203)
qwrtln/Homm3BG-mission-book: draft-scenarios/clash/gold_rush.tex

% !TeX spellcheck = en_US
\addscenariosection{1}{Solo/Clash/Alliance Scenario}{Gold Rush}{\images/gold-mine.png}

\newenvironment{Figure}
{\par\medskip\noindent\minipage{\linewidth}}
{\endminipage\par\medskip}

> 

Reviewer: What's that for?

Author: Tried different ideas to make putting Map Layouts easier. I will remove it.

\textbf{Player Count:} 1, 2 or 4 (Alliance variant)

\textbf{Starting Resources:} 15 \svg{gold}, 3 \svg{building_materials}, 1 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Income:} 10 \svg{gold}, 0 \svg{building_materials}, 0 \svg{valuables}

\textbf{Starting Units:}
\begin{itemize}

>   \item A Pack of \bronze\ Units with the highest Recruitment cost
>   \item A Few \silver\ Units with the lowest Recruitment cost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item A Pack of chosen \bronze\ Units
  \item A Few cheapest \silver\ Units
```
If you feel like it, I'm a fan of @xNeuroNx's convention. But the way it's written right now is fine.

  \item The difficulty of all Fields on the \#C1 Tile is lowered by one Level (effectively making it a ``V-VI'' Tile).
  \item Certain locations have special rules, typically allowing players to acquire \textbf{Resource Cards} -- refer to the table below.
  \item When defeating an enemy Main Hero, the victorious player may, instead of taking \mbox{5 \svg{gold}}, choose and take one Artifact from the opponent's Discard Pile.
  \item A Hero carrying the Grail Token is not protected by the \textit{Sanctuary} effect.
  \item If a Hero carrying the Grail Token surrenders or is defeated by an enemy Hero, they give the Token to the opponent.
  \item If a Hero carrying the Grail Token is defeated by a Neutral Army, the Grail Token is placed on the Field where the Hero was defeated. Any Hero visiting this Field takes the Token and loses all remaining~\svg{movement}.
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Victory Conditions}}

\begin{itemize}

>   \item At the end of any Round, your Hero possesses the Grail Token and your team can afford all remaining \textbf{tranches}.
>   \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if nobody wins after 13 Rounds, the winner is the player/team who is able to pay the highest \textbf{tranche} value with their remaining resources.
> \end{itemize}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item At the end of any Round, your Hero possesses the Grail Token and your team can afford all remaining \textbf{tranches}.
  \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if nobody wins after 13 Rounds, the winner is the player/team who is able to pay the highest \textbf{tranche} value with their remaining resources.
\end{itemize}

\vspace*{\fill}
```

Let's get rid of this gap in the middle.

\columnbreak

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Defeat Conditions}}

\begin{itemize}
  \item Fail to pay a required \textbf{tranche}.
  \item In \textbf{Solo play}: fail to meet the Victory Condition by the end of Round 13.
  \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if both players/teams cannot pay their \textbf{tranche} in the same Round, the player/team with the highest \textbf{tranche} value in remaining resources wins, with the Grail Token counting as 60~\svg{gold}.
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Timed Events}}

> Players must pay tranches at the start of specific Rounds, as shown in the table below. After paying, \textbf{remove all Black Cubes} from every Windmill and Water Wheel on the map.

Reviewer: Does it mean you pay before receiving resources, or it's implied that you pay after that?

Author: The rewritten rulebook says, that scenario timed events are after getting resources: https://github.com/Heegu-sama/Homm3BG/blob/main/sections/round_structure.tex#L21I assumed here it's redundant info.

But actually it says about "Events marked on the Round Tracker". I may bring back the clarification.

> \hommtablemulticol[]{14}{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\bigskip

\hommtablemulticol[]{14}{
```

The table needs some breathing room.

  \item A Few \silver\ Units with the lowest Recruitment cost
\end{itemize}

\textbf{Town Buildings:} \bronze\ Dwelling, Citadel

\textbf{Map Tile Pool:} Each player takes 2 Far (II--III) Map Tiles.

% It looks much better if Map Setup section is in new column.
% Both \vfill or \columnbreak work strangely here.
% Maybe replace it with some fancy image in the future.

> \vspace{9em}

Reviewer: `\vspace*{\fill}` gets the job done. But instead, please put some art here. The elemental conflux from the new rule books will fit in great.
![elemental_conflux](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d9d9f6db-fbe3-40ea-91a6-af2bac6cd6c9)

Reviewer: See example: https://github.com/qwrtln/Homm3BG-mission-book/blob/7e48327ce127e594ceaef20fb76c5a29c690b62f/campaigns/inferno_devilish_plan.tex#L84

\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Additional Rules}}

\begin{itemize}
  \item Before game, remove all Cards granting resources (including those with one of the options) from their respective Decks, and form a \textbf{Resource Cards} pool. They will be available at specific locations throughout the Scenario. If any of these Cards is removed from game, it goes back to the pool.
  \item Lord Haart's starting \textit{Estates} Ability is replaced with \textit{Scouting}.
  \item At the start of certain Rounds, players must send a \textbf{tranche} to their lieges. The tranche value is expressed in \svg{gold}, but may be partially or entirely paid in other resources using these exchange rates: 1 \svg{building_materials} equals 2 \svg{gold} and 1 \svg{valuables} equals 4 \svg{gold}, with no change given. In Alliance mode, allied players collectively pay a single tranche. Any player or team unable to pay loses the game immediately.
  \item The difficulty of all Fields on the \#C1 Tile is lowered by one Level (effectively making it a ``V-VI'' Tile).

>   \item Certain locations have special rules, typically allowing players to acquire \textbf{Resource Cards} -- refer to the table at the next page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item Certain locations have special rules, typically allowing players to acquire \textbf{Resource Cards} -- refer to the table on the next page.
```

  \item A Hero carrying the Grail Token is not protected by the \textit{Sanctuary} effect.
  \item If a Hero carrying the Grail Token surrenders or is defeated by an enemy Hero, they give the Token to the opponent.

>   \item If a Hero carrying the Grail Token is defeated by a Neutral Army, the Grail token is placed on the Field where the Hero was defeated. Any Hero visiting this Filed takes the Token and loses all remaining \svg{movement}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item If a Hero carrying the Grail Token is defeated by a Neutral Army, the Grail Token is placed on the Field where the Hero was defeated. Any Hero visiting this Field takes the Token and loses all remaining \svg{movement}.
```

  \item When defeating an enemy Main Hero, the victorious player may, instead of taking \mbox{5 \svg{gold}}, choose and take one Artifact from the opponent's Discard Pile.
\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Victory Conditions}}

\begin{itemize}
  \item At the end of any Round, your Hero possesses the Grail Token and your team can afford all remaining \textbf{tranches}.

>   \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if nobody wins after 13 Rounds, the winner is the player/team who is able to pay the highest \textbf{tranche} value with remaining resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if nobody wins after 13 Rounds, the winner is the player/team who is able to pay the highest \textbf{tranche} value with their remaining resources.
```

\end{itemize}

\subsection*{\MakeUppercase{Defeat Conditions}}

\begin{itemize}
  \item Fail to pay a required \textbf{tranche}.
  \item In \textbf{Solo play}: fail to meet the Victory Condition by the end of Round 13.

>   \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if both players/teams cannot pay their \textbf{tranche} in the same Round, the player/team with highest \textbf{tranche} value in remaining resources wins, with the Grail Token counting as 60 \svg{gold}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  \item In \textbf{PvP games}, if both players/teams cannot pay their \textbf{tranche} in the same Round, the player/team with the highest \textbf{tranche} value in remaining resources wins, with the Grail Token counting as 60 \svg{gold}.
```

    
    \node at (13.4, -4.6) {\includegraphics[width=0.56\textwidth]{\maps/gold_rush-2v2.png}};
    \node at (13.4, -4.1) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
    \node at (13.4, -9.3) {\footnotesize{\textbf{2v2 VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\begin{tikzpicture}[overlay]
    
\end{tikzpicture}

\begin{table*}[t]
  \hommtable[]{23}{
    \centering
      \begin{tabularx}{\linewidth}{p{0.25\linewidth}p{0.71\linewidth}}
        \darkcell{Tile and Location} & \darkcell{Additional Rules} \\
        \darkcell[1]{Obelisk}
        & \lightcell[1]{Choose one Minor Artifact from Resource Cards, or take 6 \svg{gold}} \\
        \darkcell[1]{N1 Witch Hut}
        & \lightcell[1]{Instead of standard effect, you may take \textit{Estates} Ability.} \\
        \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Warrior Tomb}
        & \lightcell[2]{Instead of \textbf{one} Artifact Search, you may choose Minor or Major Artifact from Resource Cards. The other Search must be from Artifact Deck.} \\
        \darkcell[1.3]{\#C1/C2 Shrine of Magic Incantation}
        & \lightcell[1.3]{Instead of searching for a Spell, you may take one \textit{View Air} Spell.} \\
        \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Settlement} 

>         & \lightcell[2]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped*. The choosen settlement bonus is doubled**. Choose 5 (if you're first to Flag) or 2 (otherwise) artifacts from Resource Cards.} \\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        & \lightcell[2]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped*. The chosen settlement bonus is doubled**. Choose 5 (if you're first to Flag) or 2 (otherwise) artifacts from Resource Cards.} \\
```

> \begin{table*}[t]
>   \hommtable[]{23}{
>     \centering
>       \begin{tabularx}{\linewidth}{p{0.25\linewidth}p{0.71\linewidth}}
>         \darkcell{Tile and Location} & \darkcell{Additional Rules} \\
>         \darkcell[1]{Obelisk}
>         & \lightcell[1]{Choose one Minor Artifact from Resource Cards, or take 6 \svg{gold}} \\
>         \darkcell[1]{N1 Witch Hut}
>         & \lightcell[1]{Instead of standard effect, you may take \textit{Estates} Ability.} \\
>         \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Warrior Tomb}
>         & \lightcell[2]{Instead of \textbf{one} Artifact Search, you may choose Minor or Major Artifact from Resource Cards. The other Search must be from Artifact Deck.} \\
>         \darkcell[1.3]{\#C1/C2 Shrine of Magic Incantation}
>         & \lightcell[1.3]{Instead of searching for a Spell, you may take one \textit{View Air} Spell.} \\
>         \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Settlement} 
>         & \lightcell[2]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped*. The choosen settlement bonus is doubled**. Choose 5 (if you're first to Flag) or 2 (otherwise) artifacts from Resource Cards.} \\
>         \darkcell[1.3]{C2 Grail}
>         & \lightcell[1.3]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped\footnotemark[1]. Take the Grail Token and lose all remaining \svgeven{movement-note}.} \\
>       \end{tabularx}
>     \medskip
>     }
>   \footnotesize{* Including Quick Combat. Bypassing without visiting the Field (such as with the \textit{Pathfinding} Ability) is still allowed.}
> 
>   \footnotesize{** For example: if you choose increasing \svg{valuables} production, you increase it by two and get 10 \svg{valuables} if you are first player to Flag this settlement. If you choose reinforcement, you may reinforce two Units.}
> \end{table*}
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\begin{table*}[t]
  \hommtable[]{23}{
    \centering
      \begin{tabularx}{\linewidth}{p{0.25\linewidth}p{0.71\linewidth}}
        \darkcell{Tile and Location} & \darkcell{Additional Rules} \\
        \darkcell[1]{Obelisk}
        & \lightcell[1]{Choose one Minor Artifact from Resource Cards, or take 6 \svg{gold}} \\
        \darkcell[1]{N1 Witch Hut}
        & \lightcell[1]{Instead of standard effect, you may take \textit{Estates} Ability.} \\
        \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Warrior Tomb}
        & \lightcell[2]{Instead of \textbf{one} Artifact Search, you may choose Minor or Major Artifact from Resource Cards. The other Search must be from Artifact Deck.} \\
        \darkcell[1.3]{\#C1/C2 Shrine of Magic Incantation}
        & \lightcell[1.3]{Instead of searching for a Spell, you may take one \textit{View Air} Spell.} \\
        \darkcell[2]{\#C1 Settlement}
        & \lightcell[2]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped\textsuperscript{\hyperref[fn:combat]{*}}. The chosen settlement bonus is doubled\textsuperscript{\hyperref[fn:bonus]{**}}. Choose 5 (if you're first to Flag) or 2 (otherwise) artifacts from Resource Cards.} \\
        \darkcell[1.3]{C2 Grail}
        & \lightcell[1.3]{Combat with Neutral Units cannot be skipped\textsuperscript{\hyperref[fn:combat]{*}}. Take the Grail Token and lose all remaining \svgeven{movement-note}.} \\
      \end{tabularx}
    \medskip
    }
  \phantomsection
  \label{fn:combat}
  \footnotesize{\textsuperscript{*} Including Quick Combat. Bypassing without visiting the Field (such as with the \textit{Pathfinding} Ability) is still allowed.}

  \phantomsection
  \label{fn:bonus}
  \footnotesize{\textsuperscript{**} For example: if you choose increasing \svg{valuables} production, you increase it by two and get 10 \svg{valuables} if you are first player to Flag this settlement. If you choose reinforcement, you may reinforce two Units.}
\end{table*}
```

  \end{tabularx}
}

\begin{center}
  {\transparent{0.2}\includegraphics[width=0.7\linewidth, keepaspectratio]{\art/champion.png}}
\end{center}

\begin{center}

\begin{tikzpicture}

>   \centering

Reviewer: Aren't those centerings redundant? It's in the center block anyway.

  \node at (0.0, 0.0) {\includegraphics[width=0.6\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-solo.png}};
  \node at (1.0, -1.2) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (1.27, 0.4) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{\#C1}}}}};
  \node at (1.56, 2.1) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{C2}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, -3.1) {\footnotesize{\textbf{SOLO VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\vfill
    
\begin{tikzpicture}
  \centering
  \node at (0.0, 0.0) {\includegraphics[width=0.92\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-1v1.png}};
  \node at (-0.25, -1.22) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, 0.4) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{\#C1}}}}};
  \node at (0.35, 2.15) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{C2}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, -3.3) {\footnotesize{\textbf{1v1 VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\vfill

\begin{tikzpicture}
  \node at (0, 0) {\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-2v2.png}};
  \node at (0.03, 0.45) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (0, -4.4) {\footnotesize{\textbf{2v2 VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\end{center}

> \end{multicols*}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\end{multicols*}
```
All the map layouts look to scale now, nicely done.

\end{center}

\vfill

\begin{center}

\begin{tikzpicture}
  \node at (0.0, 0.0) {\includegraphics[width=0.6\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-solo.png}};
  \node at (1.0, -1.2) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (1.27, 0.4) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{\#C1}}}}};
  \node at (1.56, 2.1) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{C2}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, -3.1) {\footnotesize{\textbf{SOLO VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\vfill
    
\begin{tikzpicture}
  \centering
  \node at (0.0, 0.0) {\includegraphics[width=0.92\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-1v1.png}};
  \node at (-0.25, -1.22) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, 0.4) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{\#C1}}}}};
  \node at (0.35, 2.15) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{C2}}}}};
  \node at (0.0, -3.3) {\footnotesize{\textbf{1v1 VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\vfill

\begin{tikzpicture}
  \node at (0, 0) {\includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{\maps/gold_rush-2v2.png}};
  \node at (0.03, 0.45) {\large{{\textbf{\textcolor{deepskyblue}{N1}}}}};
  \node at (0, -4.4) {\footnotesize{\textbf{2v2 VARIANT}}};
\end{tikzpicture}

\end{center}

> \end{multicols*}
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\end{multicols*}
```
